# State Management Types:

## 1 .Client-Side State Management      

 1.Client-Side State Management :-</br>The state related information will directly get stored on the Client side.That specific information will travel back and communicate with every request
generated by the user then afterwards provides responses after Server-side communication.
Client-side state management techniques are:-
- View state:In general we can say it is used for storing user data in ASP.NET, sometimes in ASP.NET applications the user wants to maintain or store their data temporarily after a post-back.. In this case VIEW STATE is the most used and preferred way of doing that.
 ``` 
 public partial class index : System.Web.UI.Page
    {
        int i = 0;
        protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            if(!IsPostBack)
            {
                ViewState["data"] = i;
            }
        }

        protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            i = (int)ViewState["data"];
            Label1.Text = (++i).ToString();
            ViewState["data"] = i;
        }
    }
  ```
 
- Hidden field :A hidden field is used for storing small amounts of data on the client side. In most simple words it's just a container of some objects but their result is not rendered on our web browser. It is invisible in the browser.
``` 
public partial class Default : System.Web.UI.Page
    {
        protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {

        }

        protected void TextBox1_TextChanged(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {


        }

        protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            HiddenField1.Value = TextBox1.Text;
        }

        protected void Button2_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            Label1.Text = HiddenField1.Value;
        }
    }
``` 

- Cookies: A set of Cookies is a small text file that is stored in the user's hard drive using the client's browser. Cookies are just used for the sake of the user's identity matching as it only stores information such as sessions id's, some frequent navigation or post-back request objects.
- Persistent Cookie
 
Cookies having an expiration date is called a persistent cookie. This type of cookie reaches their end as their expiration dates comes to an end. In this cookie we set an expiration date.
```//index.aspx.cs
protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            HttpCookie cookie = new HttpCookie("MyCookie");
            cookie.Value = TextBox1.Text;
            
            cookie.Expires = DateTime.Now.AddSeconds(30);
            Response.Cookies.Add(cookie);

            Response.Redirect("Default.aspx");
        }
```        
- Non-Persistent Cookie
 
Non-persistent types of cookies aren't stored in the client's hard drive permanently. It maintains user information as long as the user access or uses the services. Its simply the opposite procedure of a persistent cookie.

- Control State: Control state is based on the custom control option. For expected results from CONTROL STATE we need to enable the property of view state. 

- Query strings: A Query string is Information that is appended to the end of a page URL. We can use Query string to submit data back to your page or to another page through URL.
 Query string provide a simple but limited way of maintaining some state information. 
``` <form id="form1" runat="server">
        <div>
            <asp:HyperLink ID="HyperLink1" runat="server" NavigateUrl="~/EmpDetails.aspx?id=101">101</asp:HyperLink>
            <br />
        </div>
        <p>
        <asp:HyperLink ID="HyperLink2" runat="server" NavigateUrl="~/EmpDetails.aspx?id=102">102</asp:HyperLink>
        </p>
    </form>
```    

## 2.Server-Side State Management :- 
Server-Side State Management is different from Client-side State Management but the operations and working is somewhat the same in functionality.
In Server-Side State Management all the information is stored in the user memory.Due to this functionality there is more secure domains at the server side in comparision to 
Client-side state management.
Server-Side State Management techniques are:

 - Session State: Session is one of the most common way which is being used by developers to maintain the state of the application. The Session basically stores the values as a dictionary collection in key/value pairs. It completely utilizes server resources to store the data. It is a secure way of storing data, since the data will never be passed to the client.
```
 protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            Session["data"] = TextBox1.Text;
            Response.Redirect("Default.aspx");
        }
```        
   * In-proc:- It is a default session mode and a value store in web server memory (IIS). In this the session value stored with server start and it ends when the server is restarted.
   * State Server:- In this mode session data is stored in separate server.
   * SQL Server:- In this session is stored in the database. It is a secure mode.
   
   
 - Application State :If the information that we want to be accessed or stored globally throughout the application, even if multiple users access the site or application at the same time, then we can use an Application Object for such purposes.
 ```
  protected void Button1_Click(object sender, EventArgs e)
        {
            Application["data"] = TextBox1.Text;
            Response.Redirect("Default.aspx");
        }
 ```       
It stores information as a Dictionary Collection in key - value pairs. This value is accessible across the pages of the application / website.
There are 3 events of the Application which are as follows

- Application_Start
- Application_Error
- Application_End
